# AWS and EC2 Overview

## What is AWS and EC2?

- **Amazon Web Services (AWS)**: A service that lets you use online resources like servers, storage, and databases without needing to manage physical hardware.
- **Cloud Computing**: Renting powerful computers over the internet instead of buying your own. You get the services you need (like servers) when you need them, without owning the hardware.

## What Can You Do with AWS?

AWS can be used for many things:
- Running websites and databases
- Hosting simple websites
- Storing files
- Providing lots of services to choose from
- Being cost-effective (pay for what you use)
- It’s one of the most popular platforms with lots of people who know how to use it

## Other Cloud Options (AWS Competitors)

- **Google Cloud Platform (GCP)**
- **Microsoft Azure**
- **DigitalOcean**

## What is a Virtual Machine (VM)?

- A virtual machine (VM) is like a computer inside a computer. It uses the real computer's hardware (like its memory and CPU) to run programs as if it were a separate machine.

## What is EC2?

- **Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2)**: AWS’s service for renting virtual machines (called "instances"). You can run different types of applications on these virtual machines.

## EC2 Instance Types (Different Kinds of Virtual Machines)

AWS has different types of virtual machines for different tasks:

1. **General Purpose**: Balanced machines, good for most everyday tasks.
2. **Compute Optimized**: Great for tasks that need a lot of processing power, like crunching numbers quickly.
3. **Memory Optimized**: For tasks that need a lot of memory, like working with big datasets.
4. **Accelerated Computing**: Machines with extra hardware for special tasks like graphics or complex calculations.
5. **Storage Optimized**: Perfect for tasks that need fast reading and writing of large amounts of data.
6. **High-Performance Computing (HPC) Optimized**: The fastest machines for really demanding tasks, offering the best value for speed and power.

## Actual Ouput (Implemetations)

## Set-up security group
- look for the username then in the left side change the region into Oregon
- go the apps
- go to search input box then type <EC2> then click the dashboard
- go the sidebar
- find the security group then click the create security group
- it will go into the create security group
- then add the following credentials
    - security group name = <any_name_you_want>
    - description = <any_name_you_want>
    - vpc id = <auto-generated>
    - inbound rules
        - Type = SSH
        - Souce = Anywhere-IPV4
    - outbound rules
        - Type = SSH
        - Souce = Anywhere-IPV4
        - click add rule
        - Type = All traffic
        - Souce = custom

## Launching the Instances
- go to the ec2 dashboard 
- go to the resources card
- find the instances (running) then click it
- then the instance page will load
- go to the <launch_instance_button>
- then go the Name and Tags card then in the input blog type <name_of_instance> Note: it must be all small letter
- then go to the Application and OS Images (Amazon Machine Image) card
- then search the <ubuntu_in_the_search_bar>
- then select the machine Note: selec the machine with free tier eligible
- then go to Key pair (login) card
- select the generated key-pair dropdown
- in the Network settings Card
- look for the <SELECT_EXISTING_SECURITY_GROUP>
- then in the common security groups
- look for the group security that youve created earlier.
- after that click the <Launch_button>
- if .pem file available just put it in the given directory

Terminal: `Ubuntu`  
Command:  
```sh

    # For Windows, it will be in C:\Users\username\.ssh directory.
    # For Linux, it will be in /home/username/.ssh directory.
    
    # For raspberry pi
    cd ~/Downloads
    mv your-file.pem ~/.ssh/
    chmod 400 ~/.ssh/your-file.pem

```


## Deployment

Terminal: `Ubuntu`  
Command:  
```sh

    cd ~/.ssh/
    ssh -i "zuitt_oregon_instance_368.pem" ubuntu@ec2-35-91-55-70.us-west-2.compute.amazonaws.com -o "ServerAliveInterval 60" # connection string from aws instances

    # install nvm into the aws virtual machine
    sudo curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.39.7/install.sh | bash

    # creating a profile insde the virtual machine
    source ~/.profile

    #checking if the nvm is installed
    nvm --version

    # checking the npm version
    nvm ls-remote

    # installing npm into virtual machine
    nvm install 18.16.0

    # checking the aws storage
    df 

    # for testing file only (optional)
    mkdir codes
    cd codes
    mkdir test-app
    cd test-app
    nano index.html
    ctrl + o

    # go to aws console
    # ec2 dashboard
    # look for the public ipv4 address: 54.191.241.15 
    # go to security groups update the your_instance_security_group
    # in inbound rules edit inbound rules
    # add new rule
    # type = custom TCP | Port Range = 3000 | Source = anywhere-ipv4
    # go to the browser use your public ipv4 address like this http://54.191.241.15:3000/

```